Promises

The First Promise

I will respect the player who has chosen to insert himself into my story as protagonist. I am his mentor and expositor, not his adversary.

I will attempt to enrich the player's life with quality story, music, visuals, the satisfaction of overcoming meaningful challenges, and the thrill of well-earned discovery and victory.

I will train a worthy adversary to my game. I do not want to cheat in my cooperative contest with the player by hobbling him with arbitrary and unfair obstacles.

I will create difficult challenges, without trying to punish the player for his mistakes. Failure is a sufficient punishment.

I will make the game accessible to all players, not only those with years of practice in the genre.

I will not limit the player's ability to practice by locking incredibly difficult segments after routine segments.

I will attempt to tell an interesting and emotionally satisfying story, one that is not vague, pretentious, politically charged, propagandistic, or capriciously subversive.

I will give clues, spoken, visual, or auditory, for every secret in the game.

I will not pretend that I want the player to succeed, while actually hobbling his progress.

I will not include ANY challenges where the most obvious demand placed on the player is his willingness to waste his time.

I will not make the player's game completion dependent on the randomness of dialog trees.

I will only include organic story elements, and will not engage in tokenism.

I will give the player a reason to enter every room or area in the game.

I will allow the player ample opportunity to practice difficult techniques.

I will not include one-way barriers, except in service of the plot. If the player can simply walk around to the other side without advancing the plot, there is no reason for a one-way barrier.

I will provide in-universe explanations for all happenings, characters, area, and mechanics. When there is magic, it will have a cause.

I will not monetize the game outside of the purchase price.

I will not include one-hit kills.

I will provide reasonable purposes for my characters, areas, and items.

I will provide any tools to the player that he could reliably provide for himself, but at a great cost in time.

I will provide coordinates for and allow the player to create markers on his map, and add notes to his PDR.

I will not unreasonably handicap the player's character initially in order to provide upgrades later.

I will not kill the player without warning, and opportunity to save and heal.

I will not require the player to shuffle inventories through a bank.

I will provide plentiful and useful teleport locations.

I will have locations on the map and the game scaled exactly in proportion with one another.

I will only include useful items, and will not flood the player with items that are only used once, if at all.

I will provide automatic saves at critical moments.

I will not put positional constraints on saves.

I will allow the player to access all of his saves.

I will allow the player to see the branching timelines of his saves.

I will not let the controls be the antagonist. Movement and targeting will be precise and responsive.

I will include precise movement and targeting controls, rather than simple up-down-left-right targeting.

I will allow the player to see, through panning, anything CT-41 can see.

I will not take arbitrary control of the camera from the player during gameplay.

I will allow the player to skip any and all dialog.

In difficult areas, I will work to create dread, and maybe anxiety, rather than unearned shock. I want the player to descend into hell and conquer it. I don't not jump scares.

I will not fall into metaphor or analogy in my storytelling.

I will not try to avoid cliche to the detriment of the story.

I will not add prestige achievements, I will add in-game achievements in service of the story.

I will not include currency, buying, bartering, or choosing between item and upgrade paths. I want the player to become a skilled participant in a good story, without having to guess which items or upgrades I favored during balancing.

I will use a single seed and algorithm for random number generation on all copies of the game, so that identical inputs produce identical results.

I will not present the story in a vague or affected way in order to build an artificial sense of mystery. Some elements may be mysterious to the player, but that will be a natural product of the player controlling an ignorant agent on a strange world with a long history.

I will not create pathways that are difficult to navigate without a reward.

I will not provide partial or unusable items. Every item acquired will offer some immediate benefit to the player. 

I will not make it prudent for the player to gamble or grind. There will be no random item drops, and diminishing returns on Optimization on the same enemy type.

I will not require a player to solve the same puzzle many times. Where sensible, when a player alters the environment to solve a puzzle, it will stay altered.

I will be outspoken and honest in my criticisms of the genre and elitist players of my game.

I will accept and apply valid criticisms.

I will not include harder versions of areas or enemies, in order to pad the game's content or appeal to elitsts. I will simply create more difficult, optional content.

I will not cater the game to vocal minorities, whether they are politically motivated or genre obsessed. When a person buys entertainment, they should expect to be entertained, not talked down to, propagandized, or overwhelmed.

I will identify and eliminate plot elements that arise from an immature moral understanding. (Passengers, SM: Vitality)

I will not accept a game that attempts to induce Stockholm Syndrome or sunk costs thinking in its players. As I played Hollow Knight, there were many elements I did not enjoy because they were unfair, tedious or needlessly wasted my time. I do not want players who do beat the game to be held captive by their pride and investment, and insist that bad features are actually good, simply because they suffered through them.

I will not let a monitor artificially limit what the player, as CT-41, can see.

I will not allow 'Use a guide' to be standard advice. If the player has to recur to YouTube (aka read Nintendo Power) to enjoy the game, then I have failed.

I will provide a varied atmosphere as I am creating an expansive environment to explore. I will not have dark melancholy be a ubiquituous theme.

I will not provide incentives for the player to avoid what I ostensibly want them to do. I will not threaten death around every corner in a game where I want the player to explore.

I will not add rooms or characters to which the player must often return. The player will be self-sustaining, and will not need to manufacture, purchase, repair or upgrade at particular points.

I will give the player ample opportunity to use all of the tools which I give him. All tools will have many applications, in combat or exploration.

I will give the player the thrill of discovery, and not dampen that experience by also filling him with the dread of sudden death.

I will attempt to give the player the option to leave deadly scenarios, such as boss fights.

I will not make material acquisition necessary for core plot advancement.

I will not put overlays on the screen that break suspension of disbelief. I will not show area names.

I will not make a patchwork game. Elements in a given area will make sense, areas will not be randomly flung next to each other.

I will not make the most efficient ways to move or fight a hassle to the player.

I will not have a comically stupid story like Ritual of the Night.

I will not have the same rooms and corridors repeated. Each room will be unique, to add to the player's experience and ability to navigate.

I will not have multiple difficulties, as these emphasize artificiality rather than immersion.

I will not force the player to rely on twitch reflexes to succeed. Player success will rely on the ability to execute tasks which they can meaningfully articulate.

I will give the player a proper conclusion, rather than multiple endings to punish non-completionists, or ambiguous outcomes and cliff-hangers.

I will not create item interactions that are not explained in-game. It is unacceptable for the player to have to google an item's workings.


Ritual of the Night is derivative, copying every flaw of its spiritual predecessor
