Questions and Answers


Q: Why did the Outsider spend so much time on the Connection?
A: The young Outsider was unable to show himself to other Natives until he was visibly adult. His instinct to explore was denied, so he explored the Connection, and found the Engineers to be the most interesting group to communicate with.

Q: Why did the Outsider leave the Realm?
A: Certain Engineers who were envious of his ability questioned his parentage under the guise of truth-seeking, and brought the problem of his age to the Rulers. He feared the death penalty, and fled.

Q: Why did the Outsider choose to hide in the Nucleus?
A: He believed that few Explorers, and no Natives of the other Lineages, would be able to follow him there.

Q: Why did the Outsider begin to dabble in necromancy?
A: He became despondent, and then nihilistic, after his exile and discovery that knowledge has absolute limits. His faith in truth was shaken, and he saw himself as little different than the Death Breeders that surrounded his home, and who used their offspring to further their own ambitions. He was alone, and without social and legal restraints.

Q: How did the Singularity enter Creation?
A: Engineers, the same ones that conspired against the Outsider, attempted to determine the exact mechanism of an Altar's operation. During their investigations they left a Tear open for a long while, during which the Singularity entered Creation.

Q: Why did the Singularity move toward the Lower Ruins?
A: When the Singularity entered Creation, it had to learn the Law, and found the bustling Realm to be disorienting. The Lower Ruins, and especially the Catacombs, were quiet and still enough to allow the Singularity to study Creation.

Q: Why did the Singularity split into Thosmodeme and Voronash?
A: Outside Creation, consuming and controlling are synonymous. Within Creation, where entities naturally separate, it is possible to control without consuming. Thosmodeme chose to dominate, while the more primal Voronash elected to devour.

Q: Why was Thosmodeme initially able to defeat and bind Voronash?
A: Thosmodeme more quickly understood the mechanisms of order and control within Creation, and used this mastery to subdue Voronash. In keeping with his nature, Thosmodeme utterly controlled Voronash, rather than devouring him.

Q: Why did Voronash seek out the Outsider?
A: Alone in his Pit, Voronash pondered the past in which he viewed Creation from the Outside, and the many cloudy futures he saw there. He knew that the Outsider can be to him a useful ally. Thosmodeme, on the other hand, was always concerned with the present and proximal as he directed his kingdom.

Q: How did Voronash gain the alliegance of the Outsider?
A: He promised him knowledge of the Outside, promised to destroy Thosmodeme, promised to grant the Outsider an Exalted Lineage (descendency was twice denied to the Outsider), and promised the Outsider continuation beyond the finite bounds of Creation.

Q: Why did the Outsider leave Voronash?
A: After devouring Earth and several other worlds, Voronash grew hungry, and began to devour his Angels, the Outsider's children.

Q: Why did the Outsider return to Lumen 2?
A: He could think of nowhere else to go.

Q: Why did the Outsider ascend the Mountainside?
A: A voice called to him soon after he returned to Lumen 2, which was by then a sad and lonely world.

Q: Why didn't the Outsider permit his children to reproduce?
A: Voronash promised never to devour his children, not his children's children.

Q: Why did the Outsider choose to join CT-41?
A: He was humbled by the Being in the Mountain. Vadim showed the Outsider the Eternal Truth, in which he redeems himself by aiding CT-41, whom he had previously destroyed.

Q: Why did't the Outsider repeatedly use the Altars for time travel?
A: They were never designed for such a use, and the consequences of repeated temporal travel were unknown and potentially dangerous.

Q: Why did Voronash wish to devour Creation?
A: Because Voronash wished to devour everything.

Q: Why did't CT-41 simply wait for the Outsider to leave Lumen 2 aboard the Paralus, and then use the Prime Altar to move back in time?
A: The repentant Outsider was aboard the Paralus also, and needed be present to modify the Prime Altar's operation.

Q: 
A: 